♪
NARRATOR:
Hollywood...
It's a town that's always
attracted a certain
kind of woman.
She arrives,
ready to do battle...
...with lipstick and cleavage
as her weapons of choice.
She is confident of victory
because she knows what life
has taught her...
...that beauty
is power.
But this is not a story
about a woman with power.
Oh, no.
This is about
another kind of woman.
The middle-aged housewife
no one ever talks about.
The drab sparrow
no one has time for.
The plain Jane who is never
invited to the party.
She has no beauty to draw upon.
No style.
No grace.
This timid creature
moves through life...
...as if invisible.
Still, she never complains.
Years of neglect have taught her
not to expect
too much from life.
She's been told
it's best to wait.
That one day, "the meek shall
inherit the Earth."
Yes, this is the story
of Alma Fillcot.
A very meek woman,
who, one day...
...got tired of waiting.
♪
Alma Fillcot's journey from
inconsequential to infamous
began with a story
in the morning paper.
Her life began to change...
when someone else's life
had ended.
Bertram. Wake up.
Vonda Van Essen is dead.
Who?
She's the founder
of the Elysian Park Garden Club.
It's considered the finest
in Los Angeles.
And it's very exclusive.
The competition to get in
is fierce.
They never have more than
20 members at a time,
but Vonda's death means
there'll be an opening.
Normally,
I wouldn't dare to dream,
but we both know I've done
wonders with my garden.
So, do you think I should apply?
Do you think I have
any hope at all of getting in?
I think that the women
in that club would
be lucky to have you
as a member.
But they are all
rich society types.
Their gardens are tended to
by professionals.
And if the competition
is as fierce as you say,
well...
You're right.
It's idiotic to get my hopes up.
Forget I mentioned it.
-Okay.
-Hmm.
-Bye-bye.
-Bye.
Morning, Mom.
Oh. Dee, you're up.
Do you want breakfast?
I'll just grab a bite
at the diner.
Oh, hold on. Your hem's undone.
Let me fix it for you.
I work behind a counter, Ma.
Who's gonna see?
Well, you might meet a nice man.
You don't want to seem sloppy.
I'll ask Sue to fix it.
She knows her way
around a needle and thread.
Don't insult me, Dee.
[scoffs]
I know how to sew a hem.
Heavens. Anyone can hem.
So, I heard you talking
to Daddy.
There's some club
you want to join?
I see these Garden Club ladies
every week
at this bistro downtown.
I plan my shopping so I can
walk by and get a look at them.
[both chuckle]
They're so chic.
And they seem to have
so much fun together.
I'd be happy
every day of my life
if I had a group
of elegant friends like that.
So, how does someone
join a club like that?
Oh, well, you have to be
nominated by a current member.
And then they vote.
But I don't know
any of those women.
Except Rita Castillo,
the club president.
I met her
at your father's clinic.
Talk to her.
I bet she'd help you.
Oh, I don't know.
I've introduced myself to her
a few times,
but she never seems
to remember me.
Guess I'm just
not very memorable.
[chuckles]
I say give it one more try.
Nah, I'd just be wasting
my time.
Maybe.
But what's that old saying?
Nothing ventured,
nothing gained.
There.
Your hem is done.
Good, because I'm really late.
Dee?
How would I go about it?
I can't just walk up
to Rita Castillo
and say,
"I'd like to join your club."
Can I?
It's what a memorable
woman would do.
NARRATOR: It was the great irony
of Alma's life.
While she yearned
for some kind of companionship,
her husband had more friends
than he knew what to do with.
Yes, everyone who knew
Dr. Bertram Fillcot adored him.
Especially his patients.
[gasps] Hello. Oh.
-Morning, Rona.
-Morning, Doctor.
[sighs] Who's up first?
Maisie Moran and Biscuit.
Oh, dear.
-Is that today?
-Mm-hmm.
Hello, Mrs. Moran.
How you doing?
Not so good, Doc.
I was thinking, maybe
we could wait a couple of weeks.
You know? What's the rush?
Well, I understand, but...
Biscuit is in terrible pain.
And, uh, I hate
to see unnecessary suffering.
You're right.
It's time.
[Debussy's "Clair de Lune"
playing]
You play music for the animals?
Yes. It's important for me that
their last moments be beautiful.
Wow, Doc.
You're so sweet.
Okay.
♪
[sighs]
Sweet little Biscuit.
You were always such a good boy.
Your mother's right here with
you, like she's always been.
You were an exceptional dog.
And you need to know
that your life had meaning.
You brought joy.
You were loved.
And you will be remembered.
♪
ALMA:
Hello there.
So sorry to intrude.
I-I'm-I'm meeting a fellow
gardening enthusiast
after lunch, and I brought
this new bloom to show her.
It's a Lady Marchbanks
hybrid tea rose.
Isn't it lovely?
I-I-I was sitting over there,
at my table,
and I looked up and I thought,
"Oh, my. Are those
the Garden Club ladies?
Maybe they'd like
to see it, too."
I didn't want to disturb you.
I'm actually quite shy
by nature.
But here I am...
rose in hand.
Do I know you?
Yes.
Yes, we've actually met.
Twice.
She's your veterinarian's wife.
That's me.
Alma Fillcot.
I know your cat Mr. Buttons.
How nice.
We have mutual friends.
[laughs nervously]
Um, if any of you would like
to try growing this rose,
I do have some seeds here,
in my purse,
and I'm more than happy to...
Alma, I've just had a fun idea.
Oh?
We're having a gathering
at my place Saturday.
Why don't you come by?
Show us your little seeds then?
You're inviting me to a party?
Because of Mrs. Von Essen's
passing,
we're now calling it a memorial.
Should I wear black?
Only if you want
to look like a waiter.
Here you go.
Oh. Thank you!
I'll see you Saturday!
-[laughter]
-NARRATOR: And just like that,
Alma became enthralled
with the goddess
that was Rita Castillo.
She might have felt differently
if she'd known about
Rita's private life.
Which was very sordid,
indeed.
Excuse me.
I'm looking for Vern Loomis,
the private investigator.
You found him.
And how can I help you, Miss...?
Mrs. Carlo Castillo.
Can I trust you to be discreet?
For the right price,
I can be quiet as a tomb.
Wonderful.
I hear your specialty
is investigating infidelity.
It's my bread and butter.
You think your husband
is cheating on you?
No.
The man I need you
to follow is my lover.
So you're the cheater?
Only if you're working
for my husband.
This has been
one hell of a lousy day.
But you were real
sweet in there.
Thank you, Doc.
Look, forgive me
for saying this, but, uh,
I'm worried about your color.
You look ever so tired.
That's 'cause I work nights.
I'm a singer
down at the Maui Lounge.
Ah. A chanteuse.
You should drop by sometime.
I'm there all week.
Show starts at 10:00.
It's, it's a bit late for us.
My wife and I
tend to retire early.
Oh. You're married.
Happily?
Very.
Like I said...
one hell of a lousy day.
My lover's name is... [chuckles]
God help me, Scooter Polarsky.
That's his address and headshot.
An actor?
Has he ever been in anything?
Besides debt?
No.
So you like to support the arts?
This is not some tawdry affair,
Mr. Loomis.
I care deeply
about this young man.
The guy you want me to tail?
Scooter is immature.
He has not yet grasped
the importance of fidelity.
That's funny...
coming from Mrs. Castillo.
Carlo is a vile man
with a weak heart.
When we got married, he swore
he wouldn't make it to 70.
He's now 80.
If he's not going to keep
his wedding vows,
why should I?
Oh, Mrs. Yost.
Good morning.
Are you, uh, familiar at all
with the Elysian Park
Garden Club?
Oh, yeah.
I used to know those broads.
Very la-di-da.
Why?
Rita Castillo, the president,
has invited me to a party.
This time of year?
Oh, no.
She invited you
to their annual fundraiser.
A fundraiser?
Once a year, they open the gates
and let the peasants gawk
at their fancy flowers.
And they charge ten bucks
for the privilege.
Rita's going to charge me?
Sorry to burst your bubble.
Well, you know what?
M-Maybe it's worth it. You know?
A spot's opened up in the club.
This could be a chance for me
to meet some of the members
and ingratiate myself.
Maybe one of them
will want to nominate me.
Oh, honey.
What?
Why are you looking
at me that way?
That club is an excuse
for bored society types
to gossip and sip Chablis
in the afternoon.
And they only do that
with their own kind.
You're saying I won't fit in?
Sweetie...
you're a housewife.
So you dress for comfort.
You do your own hair.
Your idea of dolling up
is wearing lipstick to church.
You act like
I'm not presentable.
Check your closet.
Got anything in there
beside tweed and sensible shoes?
No.
Because you're a frump,
and there's nothing wrong
with that.
But they don't let frumps
into the Elysian Park
Garden Club.
[chattering]
Gigi, how's the party
coming along?
We made splendid progress.
I made those changes
to the menu.
-Excellent.
-Mm.
And what about the music?
[gasps] This is Uta Klug,
Poland's most famous
concert harpist.
She's agreed to play Saturday.
-Miss Klug, what an honor.
-Thank you.
Ooh, and are those the dahlias?
Oh, Gigi. They're lovely.
-You've outdone yourself.
-Mm.
This will be my most elegant
party ever. [giggles]
CARLO:
Hey, Rita!
What do you want, Carlo?!
Where the hell is my blue suit?
Give me a sec! I'm busy!
[gasps]
I need my suit.
Yes, I can see that.
Would you put on some pants?
We have company.
Oh, will you relax?
I haven't got anything
that these ladies
haven't seen before.
Well, most of them, anyway.
Bertie.
Hmm?
I ran into Rita Castillo today,
and she invited me to a party.
All the Garden Club ladies
will be there.
And if I present well,
I might have a real chance
at being nominated.
Oh.
Oh, I see.
Of course, I,
I would need a new dress.
Something exquisite.
That will take
people's breath away.
Right, right, and, uh...
how much do you think
that would cost?
Bertram, this is no time
to pinch pennies.
That club is filled
with stylish women.
And I, on the other hand, am...
drab and shabby.
If I have any hope
of getting in,
I have to be just as chic
as they are.
Yes. Of course.
Ah. Oh, what about
the blue dress I bought you?
Why can't you just wear that?
Because no one ever
remembers my name!
I go through life
introducing myself
over and over
to people that I've already met.
And when they finally do recall
meeting me, they don't say,
"Oh, Alma." No, I'm...
I'm the veterinarian's wife.
I have got to start
making an impression.
I can't do that
in some dowdy old blue dress.
I need to be spectacular.
For once in my life.
Here.
Take it all.
Really?
Spend every last cent.
I want people
to remember your name.
Oh, Bertie.
-Thank you.
-Oh.
Thank you.
[Bertram moans]
Maybe it's time we turn in?
Oh. I couldn't possibly
sleep now.
I've got too much planning
to do.
Only got two days
till the party.
Two days to get a dress
and shoes.
-I've got to have shoes.
-Yes, shoes.
My Bertie...
You've made me so happy.
Oh.
Lovely.
Actually, I'm not that tired
either.
I might go for a walk.
D-Do you mind?
No, not at all.
Lovely.
[music playing faintly]
♪ To the sunny side
of the street♪
♪ Can't you hear a pitter-pat?♪
♪ And that happy tune
is your step♪
♪ Life can be so sweet♪
♪ On the sunny side♪
♪ On the
sunny side♪
♪ On the sunny♪
♪ Sunny side of the♪
♪ Street.♪
I can't believe you came, Doc.
Curiosity got the better of me.
Thanks, Sid.
You're looking at my bruises.
I, I'm sorry.
I shouldn't stare.
Relax.
No one's roughing me up.
I got a condition.
So...
where's your wife tonight?
She not a music lover?
She's just had, uh,
a lot on her mind lately.
Everything but you, huh?
Don't get me wrong.
I do love her.
Yet here you are.
Yet here I am.
It's getting late.
Come on, Doc.
Have one more drink with Maisie.
All right, yes, one-one more.
[both chuckle]
Hey, Sid.
Hello.
[women giggling]
[indistinct chatter]
[bell jingles]
Evening, Mister.
Welcome to
the Orange Grove Diner.
Our special tonight is meatloaf,
but between you and me,
it's not that special.
Yeah, I'll just, uh,
I'll just have some coffee.
Wise choice. How do you like it?
Blonde and sweet.
[laughter]
We're talking about coffee.
Right?
Yeah, that's just, uh,
it's my fancy way of saying
cream and sugar.
Cute.
You know, that paper
you're pretending to read
is two days old.
[chuckles] So it is.
Well, you got something newer?
Well, I just finished this.
Give it a try.
Masters of Crime.
Huh. You read this stuff?
Oh, I love a good murder.
The bloodier, the better.
See...
violence doesn't bother me.
-Is that so?
-Yeah.
Keep that in mind
when you tip me.
♪ Life can be so sweet♪
♪ On the sunny side♪
♪ Of the street.♪
[both laughing]
That was Joe's favorite song.
He was my brother.
Died in the war.
Oh. I'm so sorry.
Got any other family?
Nope. He was the last one.
Don't got many friends
left either.
But, hey...
I got you now.
You certainly do.
Want to come up?
Have a nightcap?
[chuckling]:
Oh.
Well...
It's late, yeah.
I have work in the morning.
Oh.
Rain check?
[quietly]:
Yeah. Yes.
[laughs]
♪
[indistinct chatter]
WOMAN:
Uh, madam?
Found anything you like?
Oh.
Yes. Well,
everything in here is just...
stunning.
Um, just out of curiosity,
do you have anything in a...
a slightly lower price range?
Not really.
Are you sure? I...
I'm on a somewhat
limited budget.
We have a saying here:
"If you cannot afford fashion,
you must settle for clothes."
♪
I'll take four yards
of this fuchsia taffeta.
You know, I'm going
to an elegant garden party
on Saturday,
and I need to be noticed.
This should do it.
[sighs]
You drink too much.
Do I?
Oh.
It makes you do ugly things.
Like humiliate me
in front of the help.
I like taking you down a peg
when you're, uh,
playing the Grand Lady.
It's the role you hired me for.
You were late, uh,
getting home yesterday.
Um, where did you go?
I had a dress fitting
in Bel Air.
Liar.
I checked your car's odometer.
You drove three times that far.
Oh, now you're checking
my mileage?
You have a lover.
I know it.
Lord.
We haven't made it to dessert,
and you're already blotto.
I'll bet he's young and pretty
and, uh, for sale.
Just like you were.
I'm not listening to this.
It must be tough...
getting old.
Hmm?
Having to pay
for what you used to sell.
That's it.
You pathetic son of a bitch.
I'm cutting you off.
No more whiskey.
He'll turn out to be more
expensive than you ever were.
Because when I catch you,
he'll cost you everything.
Go ahead.
Drink the whole bottle.
See if I care.
[laughs]
Nice try, Mendoza.
But I want the money
and the dame.
[more menacing]:
Nice try, Mendoza.
But I want the money
andthe dame.
[phone rings]
[snoring]
Hello?
Scooter...
there's been a change of plans.
[machine jams]
No.
Oh, no.
No, the needle.
No. [grunts]
Ow.
What?
[clatters]
You're still up?
It's almost 4:00.
My dress isn't finished yet,
and the party's tomorrow.
Um, I found this
up in the attic.
Do you know where it came from?
Maybe it was Grandma's.
Did you ask Dad?
He's asleep.
The tag says
"February 14, 1945"
and it's got the name
"Enid Dolan" written on it.
-That's odd.
-Hmm.
Well, it's in our attic.
Guess it's yours now.
[chuckles]
-Good night.
Hello, lover.
Are you sure this is safe?
Oh, relax.
Carlo's upstairs, dead drunk.
[giggles]
It's just, these are nice digs.
I'd hate to see you get evicted.
[scoffs]
What if we did get caught?
Would I lose my appeal
if I didn't have Carlo's money?
You think your only appeal
is your money?
I thought a house this size
might have some mirrors in it.
[chuckles]
Oh, that was sweet. Thank you.
To tell you the truth...
[puts drink down]
I'm not that thirsty.
[meows]
[purring]
[Scooter and Rita moaning]
[cat meows]
[moaning continues]
[Rita shouts]
[moaning]
Rita?
Oh.
Carlo?
Are you up?
Who's down there?
I hear a man.
Shh. Um, it was just the radio.
Go back to bed.
I got you.
I got you. Got you. Got you.
[grunts]
[gasps]
[panting]
Darling, we just heard
Carlo's in the hospital.
What happened?
Oh, he took a nasty fall
down the stairs last night
-and had a stroke.
-[sighs]
The doctors aren't sure
he'll make it.
JOAN:
Oh, Rita,
you-you should go to him.
We'll-we'll hold
the fort down here.
The last thing
you want to do today
is host a memorial for Vonda.
No.
This is now a tribute to Carlo.
And the garden
he loved so very much.
Excuse me.
May I pour Madam
a glass of wine?
Are you insane?
My husband just had a stroke.
He's at death's door.
Put it in a teacup.
Oh. [chuckles]
Thank you.
Very much.
Mmm.
Excuse me.
Aah!
Alma?
Are you all right?
Rita. Yes.
I'm fine.
I was just admiring
your flowers.
They're, they're glorious.
[chuckles]
Thanks.
You have mulch in your bow.
Oh.
[laughs]
So I do. [laughs]
Can't take me anywhere.
[chuckles]
So...
splendid party.
Are you having fun?
My husband had a stroke
last night.
-He might not survive.
-Oh, dear.
I started the day convinced
I would never laugh again.
And then...
you walked in,
wearing that frock. [chuckles]
Oh, bless you, Alma.
You're late.
Sorry, Scooter.
It's Alma, right?
Yes. That's me.
Alma Fillcot.
Grace Burk.
I'm glad you could make it.
Oh, me, too.
Yeah, everything is just...
lovely.
Do I still have mulch in my bow?
No, forgive me.
I-I was just looking at
that cameo you're wearing.
Oh. It's pretty, isn't it?
Oh, my Aunt Enid
had one just like it.
Enid?
My mother's sister.
She died, um,
four years ago now.
On Valentine's Day.
That's, um,
February 14, isn't it?
I remember because I had gotten
her some candy.
Then I walked into her home
and I found her,
um, well, dead on the sofa.
Oh.
I'm, I'm very sorry.
Oh, my good...
I don't believe it.
Bet-Betsy is here.
-Oh.
-[chuckling]: Excuse me, Alma.
Betsy.
A waiter said
you wanted to see me.
The doctor from the hospital
is on the phone.
He needs to talk to you.
[clears throat]
Hello, Doctor.
This is Mrs. Castillo.
Any news about my husband?
We've done some tests.
The stroke he suffered
was very serious.
And...
But he's a fighter.
His vital signs
are getting stronger
by the hour.
Stronger?
He may not regain his speech
or basic motor function.
But with home nursing
and loving care from you,
he could live another 20 years.
[phone clicking]
No! No! No! No! No!
[sobbing]
Excuse me, Mrs. Burk.
-Oh.
-[chuckles] Sorry.
Um, I wanted to give you this.
Your cameo?
-Don't be silly.
-No, I, I...
I think it was your aunt's.
Read the inscription.
Oh. I, I don't understand.
H-How...?
Oh, I, I, I bought it.
Um, years ago,
at a rummage sale.
At my church.
And here I always thought one of
her nurses had sticky fingers.
[both chuckle]
W-Well, obviously I will
reimburse you.
-Oh.
-What did you pay for it?
Don't be silly.
It's a family heirloom.
It was an honor to return it.
Oh.
It's-it's late. I have to go.
So, excuse me.
-It's nice to...
-[gasps]
Was that
the veterinarian's wife?
Her name is Alma.
And she is just the sweetest
little thing. [chuckles]
I wonder if she'd be interested
in joining our club.
[chuckles]
[both panting]
That sure was nice.
And then some.
[phone rings]
Go ahead.
You don't want to keep
your rich girlfriend waiting.
[phone rings]
[both sigh]
Hello.
It's my agent.
Uh-huh?
Oh.
Oh, no. That's all right, Max.
Yeah, it wasn't much
of a part anyway.
Mm-hmm.
All right. Bye.
The story about Lana Turner
getting discovered
at Schwab's... it's a lie.
Careers take time.
You just got to be patient.
You really think I have a shot?
Oh. With that kisser?
Of course you do.
I wish my rich lady friend
was nice like you.
She pays your bills.
She doesn't have to be nice.
I feel really bad
making you dress like that.
But if my lady friend
found out about us...
It's okay, Scoot.
I know the score.
Who knows?
Maybe I'll kick her
to the curb one day.
-And then you and I will...
-Hey.
Do me a favor.
Don't make promises
you'll never keep.
[doorbell rings]
Hello.
Doc.
What are you doing here?
Well, I was in the neighborhood.
Thank you.
Come on in.
Ooh.
I wish I'd known
you were coming.
The place is in such a state.
No. No, everything's fine.
I'll just go put
these in some water.
Sure.
Oh, yeah.
I've been seeing some doctor.
He says I got cirrhosis.
It seems I'm dying.
I know.
What do you mean you know?
You're tired.
Your skin is jaundiced.
You have bruises.
Way I see it...
...we all got to die.
Sooner or later, right?
[chuckles]
Yes.
That's why we need
to enjoy ourselves while we can.
[clears throat]
Chateau Bridgette.
It's a rather good year.
Aw, Doc.
You shouldn't have. [chuckles]
You sit.
I'll pour.
♪
[clatters]
I didn't know you were
in the Ziegfeld Follies.
Honey, what you don't know
about me is a lot.
I started as a chorus girl.
Did a whole number,
coming down a long staircase,
never looking down,
not even once.
"Eyes out to the audience."
That's what
Mr. Ziegfeld always said.
[chuckles]
I feel funny.
Wow.
-The room is spinning.
-Let me help you.
[slurring]: Something's
happening to me, Doc.
It's just the sedative
I put in your wine.
It's relaxing you. That's all.
I can barely move.
Shh. Don't try and talk.
You know, it's, uh, it's funny.
We take such good care
of our pets.
When a dog or cat
is ready to die...
[classical piano playing]
...we help them.
I'm very much of the opinion
we should show human beings
the same kindness.
The disease you have is awful.
The end will come slowly...
cruelly.
Hearing you have no family,
no one to take care of you.
I couldn't just stand idly by
and do nothing.
[Bertram sighs]
You were an exceptional woman.
You need to know
that your life had meaning.
You brought joy.
You were loved.
And you will be remembered.
[breathes deeply]
♪
[chuckles softly]
[whispers]:
Alma?
♪